::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_09_08.md)

Chapter 9. Repetitive tasks

[Next](chap_10.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_09_09}9.9. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

Remember: when building scripts, work in steps and test each step before
incorporating it in your script.

1.  Create a script that will take a (recursive) copy of files in
    `/etc`{.filename} so that a beginning system administrator can edit
    files without fear.

2.  Write a script that takes exactly one argument, a directory name. If
    the number of arguments is more or less than one, print a usage
    message. If the argument is not a directory, print another message.
    For the given directory, print the five biggest files and the five
    files that were most recently modified.

3.  Can you explain why it is so important to put the variables in
    between double quotes in the example from [Section
    9.4.2](sect_09_04.md#sect_09_04_02)?

4.  Write a script similar to the one in [Section
    9.5.1](sect_09_05.md#sect_09_05_01), but think of a way of
    quitting after the user has executed 3 loops.

5.  Think of a better solution than **move `-b`{.option}** for the
    script from [Section 9.5.3](sect_09_05.md#sect_09_05_03) to
    prevent overwriting of existing files. For instance, test whether or
    not a file exists. Don\'t do unnecessary work!

6.  Rewrite the `whichdaemon.sh`{.filename} script from [Section
    7.2.4](sect_07_02.md#sect_07_02_04), so that it:

    -   Prints a list of servers to check, such as Apache, the SSH
        server, the NTP daemon, a name daemon, a power management
        daemon, and so on.

    -   For each choice the user can make, print some sensible
        information, like the name of the web server, NTP trace
        information, and so on.

    -   Optionally, build in a possibility for users to check other
        servers than the ones listed. For such cases, check that at
        least the given process is running.

    -   Review the script from [Section
        9.2.2.4](sect_09_02.md#sect_09_02_02_04). Note how character
        input other than **q** is processed. Rebuild this script so that
        it prints a message if characters are given as input.
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
  [Prev](sect_09_08.md)    [Home](index.md)    [Next](chap_10.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_09.md)       More on variables
  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
:::
