::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_01_06.md)

Chapter 1. Bash and Bash scripts

[Next](chap_02.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_01_07}1.7. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

These are some exercises to warm you up for the next chapter:

1.  Where is the **bash** program located on your system?

2.  Use the `--version`{.option} option to find out which version you
    are running.

3.  Which shell configuration files are read when you login to your
    system using the graphical user interface and then opening a
    terminal window?

4.  Are the following shells interactive shells? Are they login shells?

    -   A shell opened by clicking on the background of your graphical
        desktop, selecting [\"Terminal\"]{.QUOTE} or such from a menu.

    -   A shell that you get after issuing the command **ssh
        `localhost`{.parameter}**.

    -   A shell that you get when logging in to the console in text
        mode.

    -   A shell obtained by the command **xterm &**.

    -   A shell opened by the **mysystem.sh** script.

    -   A shell that you get on a remote host, for which you didn\'t
        have to give the login and/or password because you use SSH and
        maybe SSH keys.

5.  Can you explain why **bash** does not exit when you type
    **Ctrl**+**C** on the command line?

6.  Display directory stack content.

7.  If it is not yet the case, set your prompt so that it displays your
    location in the file system hierarchy, for instance add this line to
    `~/.bashrc`{.filename}:

    **export `PS1`{.varname}=\"`\u@\h \w> `{.parameter}\"**

8.  Display hashed commands for your current shell session.

9.  How many processes are currently running on your system? Use **ps**
    and **wc**, the first line of output of **ps** is not a process!

10. How to display the system hostname? Only the name, nothing more!
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------
  [Prev](sect_01_06.md)    [Home](index.md)             [Next](chap_02.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_01.md)    Writing and debugging scripts
  ------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------
:::
