::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_01_02.md)

Chapter 1. Bash and Bash scripts

[Next](sect_01_04.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_01_03}1.3. Executing commands {#executing-commands .sect1}
======================================

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_01_03_01}1.3.1. General {#general .sect2}
--------------------------------

Bash determines the type of program that is to be executed. Normal
programs are system commands that exist in compiled form on your system.
When such a program is executed, a new process is created because Bash
makes an exact copy of itself. This child process has the same
environment as its parent, only the process ID number is different. This
procedure is called *forking*.

After the forking process, the address space of the child process is
overwritten with the new process data. This is done through an *exec*
call to the system.

The *fork-and-exec* mechanism thus switches an old command with a new,
while the environment in which the new program is executed remains the
same, including configuration of input and output devices, environment
variables and priority. This mechanism is used to create all UNIX
processes, so it also applies to the Linux operating system. Even the
first process, **init**, with process ID 1, is forked during the boot
procedure in the so-called *bootstrapping* procedure.
:::

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_01_03_02}1.3.2. Shell built-in commands {#shell-built-in-commands .sect2}
------------------------------------------------

Built-in commands are contained within the shell itself. When the name
of a built-in command is used as the first word of a simple command, the
shell executes the command directly, without creating a new process.
Built-in commands are necessary to implement functionality impossible or
inconvenient to obtain with separate utilities.

Bash supports 3 types of built-in commands:

-   Bourne Shell built-ins:

    **:**, **.**, **break**, **cd**, **continue**, **eval**, **exec**,
    **exit**, **export**, **getopts**, **hash**, **pwd**, **readonly**,
    **return**, **set**, **shift**, **test**, **\[**, **times**,
    **trap**, **umask** and **unset**.

-   Bash built-in commands:

    **alias**, **bind**, **builtin**, **command**, **declare**,
    **echo**, **enable**, **help**, **let**, **local**, **logout**,
    **printf**, **read**, **shopt**, **type**, **typeset**, **ulimit**
    and **unalias**.

-   Special built-in commands:

    When Bash is executing in POSIX mode, the special built-ins differ
    from other built-in commands in three respects:

    1.  Special built-ins are found before shell functions during
        command lookup.

    2.  If a special built-in returns an error status, a non-interactive
        shell exits.

    3.  Assignment statements preceding the command stay in effect in
        the shell environment after the command completes.

    The POSIX special built-ins are **:**, **.**, **break**,
    **continue**, **eval**, **exec**, **exit**, **export**,
    **readonly**, **return**, **set**, **shift**, **trap** and
    **unset**.

Most of these built-ins will be discussed in the next chapters. For
those commands for which this is not the case, we refer to the Info
pages.
:::

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_01_03_03}1.3.3. Executing programs from a script {#executing-programs-from-a-script .sect2}
---------------------------------------------------------

When the program being executed is a shell script, bash will create a
new bash process using a *fork*. This subshell reads the lines from the
shell script one line at a time. Commands on each line are read,
interpreted and executed as if they would have come directly from the
keyboard.

While the subshell processes each line of the script, the parent shell
waits for its child process to finish. When there are no more lines in
the shell script to read, the subshell terminates. The parent shell
awakes and displays a new prompt.
:::
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  -------------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
  [Prev](sect_01_02.md)                 [Home](index.md)    [Next](sect_01_04.md)
  Advantages of the Bourne Again SHell    [Up](chap_01.md)            Building blocks
  -------------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
:::
