::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_03_07.md)

Chapter 3. The Bash environment

[Next](chap_04.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_03_08}3.8. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

For this exercise, you will need to read the **useradd** man pages,
because we are going to use the `/etc/skel`{.filename} directory to hold
default shell configuration files, which are copied to the home
directory of each newly added user.

First we will do some general exercises on setting and displaying
variables.

1.  Create 3 variables, `VAR1`{.varname}, `VAR2`{.varname} and
    `VAR3`{.varname}; initialize them to hold the values
    [\"thirteen\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"13\"]{.QUOTE} and [\"Happy
    Birthday\"]{.QUOTE} respectively.

2.  Display the values of all three variables.

3.  Are these local or global variables?

4.  Remove `VAR3`{.varname}.

5.  Can you see the two remaining variables in a new terminal window?

6.  Edit `/etc/profile`{.filename} so that all users are greeted upon
    login (test this).

7.  For the *root* account, set the prompt to something like [\"Danger!!
    root is doing stuff in \\w\"]{.QUOTE}, preferably in a bright color
    such as red or pink or in reverse video mode.

8.  Make sure that newly created users also get a nice personalized
    prompt which informs them on which system in which directory they
    are working. Test your changes by adding a new user and logging in
    as that user.

9.  Write a script in which you assign two integer values to two
    variables. The script should calculate the surface of a rectangle
    which has these proportions. It should be aired with comments and
    generate elegant output.

Don\'t forget to **chmod** your scripts!
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
  [Prev](sect_03_07.md)    [Home](index.md)    [Next](chap_04.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_03.md)     Regular expressions
  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
:::
