::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_08_03.md)

Chapter 8. Writing interactive scripts

[Next](chap_09.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_08_04}8.4. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

These exercises are practical applications of the constructs discussed
in this chapter. When writing the scripts, you may test by using a test
directory that does not contain too much data. Write each step, then
test that portion of code, rather than writing everything at once.

1.  Write a script that asks for the user\'s age. If it is equal to or
    higher than 16, print a message saying that this user is allowed to
    drink alcohol. If the user\'s age is below 16, print a message
    telling the user how many years he or she has to wait before legally
    being allowed to drink.

    As an extra, calculate how much beer an 18+ user has drunk
    statistically (100 liters/year) and print this information for the
    user.

2.  Write a script that takes one file as an argument. Use a *here*
    document that presents the user with a couple of choices for
    compressing the file. Possible choices could be **gzip**, **bzip2**,
    **compress** and **zip**.

3.  Write a script called `homebackup`{.filename} that automates **tar**
    so the person executing the script always uses the desired options
    (`cvp`{.option}) and backup destination directory
    (`/var/backups`{.filename}) to make a backup of his or her home
    directory. Implement the following features:

    -   Test for the number of arguments. The script should run without
        arguments. If any arguments are present, exit after printing a
        usage message.

    -   Determine whether the `backups`{.filename} directory has enough
        free space to hold the backup.

    -   Ask the user whether a full or an incremental backup is wanted.
        If the user does not have a full backup file yet, print a
        message that a full backup will be taken. In case of an
        incremental backup, only do this if the full backup is not older
        than a week.

    -   Compress the backup using any compression tool. Inform the user
        that the script is doing this, because it might take some time,
        during which the user might start worrying if no output appears
        on the screen.

    -   Print a message informing the user about the size of the
        compressed backup.

    See **info tar** or [Introduction to
    Linux](http://tille.garrels.be/training/tldp/c4540.md#sect_09_01_01),
    chapter 9: [\"Preparing your data\"]{.QUOTE} for background
    information.

4.  Write a script called `simple-useradd.sh`{.filename} that adds a
    local user to the system. This script should:

    -   Take only one argument, or else exit after printing a usage
        message.

    -   Check `/etc/passwd`{.filename} and decide on the first free user
        ID. Print a message containing this ID.

    -   Create a private group for this user, checking the
        `/etc/group`{.filename} file. Print a message containing the
        group ID.

    -   Gather information from the operator user: a comment describing
        this user, choice from a list of shells (test for acceptability,
        else exit printing a message), expiration date for this account,
        extra groups of which the new user should be a member.

    -   With the obtained information, add a line to
        `/etc/passwd`{.filename}, `/etc/group`{.filename} and
        `/etc/shadow`{.filename}; create the user\'s home directory
        (with correct permissions!); add the user to the desired
        secondary groups.

    -   Set the password for this user to a default known string.

5.  Rewrite the script from [Section
    7.2.1.4](sect_07_02.md#sect_07_02_01_04) so that it reads input
    from the user instead of taking it from the first argument.
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
  [Prev](sect_08_03.md)    [Home](index.md)    [Next](chap_09.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_08.md)        Repetitive tasks
  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------
:::
