::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_05_04.md)

Chapter 5. The GNU sed stream editor

[Next](chap_06.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_05_05}5.5. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

These exercises are meant to further demonstrate what **sed** can do.

1.  Print a list of files in your `scripts`{.filename} directory, ending
    in [\".sh\"]{.QUOTE}. Mind that you might have to unalias **ls**.
    Put the result in a temporary file.

2.  Make a list of files in `/usr/bin`{.filename} that have the letter
    [\"a\"]{.QUOTE} as the second character. Put the result in a
    temporary file.

3.  Delete the first 3 lines of each temporary file.

4.  Print to standard output only the lines containing the pattern
    [\"an\"]{.QUOTE}.

5.  Create a file holding **sed** commands to perform the previous two
    tasks. Add an extra command to this file that adds a string like
    [\"\*\*\* This might have something to do with man and man pages
    \*\*\*\"]{.QUOTE} in the line preceding every occurence of the
    string [\"man\"]{.QUOTE}. Check the results.

6.  A long listing of the root directory, `/`{.filename}, is used for
    input. Create a file holding **sed** commands that check for
    symbolic links and plain files. If a file is a symbolic link,
    precede it with a line like [\"\--This is a symlink\--\"]{.QUOTE}.
    If the file is a plain file, add a string on the same line, adding a
    comment like [\"\<\-\-- this is a plain file\"]{.QUOTE}.

7.  Create a script that shows lines containing trailing white spaces
    from a file. This script should use a **sed** script and show
    sensible information to the user.
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------
  [Prev](sect_05_04.md)    [Home](index.md)                [Next](chap_06.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_05.md)    The GNU awk programming language
  ------------------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------
:::
