::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](chap_05.md)

Chapter 5. The GNU sed stream editor

[Next](sect_05_02.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_05_01}5.1. Introduction {#introduction .sect1}
================================

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_05_01_01}5.1.1. What is sed? {#what-is-sed .sect2}
-------------------------------------

A [Stream EDitor]{.application} is used to perform basic transformations
on text read from a file or a pipe. The result is sent to standard
output. The syntax for the **sed** command has no output file
specification, but results can be saved to a file using output
redirection. The editor does not modify the original input.

What distinguishes **sed** from other editors, such as **vi** and
**ed**, is its ability to filter text that it gets from a pipeline feed.
You do not need to interact with the editor while it is running; that is
why **sed** is sometimes called a *batch editor*. This feature allows
use of editing commands in scripts, greatly easing repetitive editing
tasks. When facing replacement of text in a large number of files,
**sed** is a great help.
:::

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_05_01_02}5.1.2. sed commands {#sed-commands .sect2}
-------------------------------------

The **sed** program can perform text pattern substitutions and deletions
using regular expressions, like the ones used with the **grep** command;
see [Section 4.2](sect_04_02.md).

The editing commands are similar to the ones used in the **vi** editor:

::: {.table}
[]{#tab_05_01}

**Table 5-1. Sed editing commands**

  Command   Result
  --------- ------------------------------------------------
  a\\       Append text below current line.
  c\\       Change text in the current line with new text.
  d         Delete text.
  i\\       Insert text above current line.
  p         Print text.
  r         Read a file.
  s         Search and replace text.
  w         Write to a file.
:::

Apart from editing commands, you can give options to **sed**. An
overview is in the table below:

::: {.table}
[]{#tab_05_02}

**Table 5-2. Sed options**

  Option                 Effect
  ---------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  `-e SCRIPT`{.option}   Add the commands in SCRIPT to the set of commands to be run while processing the input.
  `-f`{.option}          Add the commands contained in the file SCRIPT-FILE to the set of commands to be run while processing the input.
  `-n`{.option}          Silent mode.
  `-V`{.option}          Print version information and exit.
:::

The **sed** info pages contain more information; we only list the most
frequently used commands and options here.
:::
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
  [Prev](chap_05.md)         [Home](index.md)    [Next](sect_05_02.md)
  The GNU sed stream editor    [Up](chap_05.md)        Interactive editing
  --------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
:::
