::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_06_03.md)

Chapter 6. The GNU awk programming language

[Next](sect_06_05.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_06_04}6.4. Summary {#summary .sect1}
===========================

The **gawk** utility interprets a special-purpose programming language,
handling simple data-reformatting jobs with just a few lines of code. It
is the free version of the general UNIX **awk** command.

This tools reads lines of input data and can easily recognize columned
output. The **print** program is the most common for filtering and
formatting defined fields.

On-the-fly variable declaration is straightforward and allows for simple
calculation of sums, statistics and other operations on the processed
input stream. Variables and commands can be put in **awk** scripts for
background processing.

Other things you should know about **awk**:

-   The language remains well-known on UNIX and alikes, but for
    executing similar tasks, [Perl]{.application} is now more commonly
    used. However, **awk** has a much steeper learning curve (meaning
    that you learn a lot in a very short time). In other words,
    [Perl]{.application} is more difficult to learn.

-   Both [Perl]{.application} and **awk** share the reputation of being
    incomprehensible, even to the actual authors of the programs that
    use these languages. So document your code!
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
  [Prev](sect_06_03.md)    [Home](index.md)    [Next](sect_06_05.md)
  Gawk variables             [Up](chap_06.md)                  Exercises
  ------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
:::
