::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](chap_04.md)

Chapter 4. Regular expressions

[Next](sect_04_02.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_04_01}4.1. Regular expressions {#regular-expressions .sect1}
=======================================

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_04_01_01}4.1.1. What are regular expressions? {#what-are-regular-expressions .sect2}
------------------------------------------------------

A *regular expression* is a pattern that describes a set of strings.
Regular expressions are constructed analogously to arithmetic
expressions by using various operators to combine smaller expressions.

The fundamental building blocks are the regular expressions that match a
single character. Most characters, including all letters and digits, are
regular expressions that match themselves. Any metacharacter with
special meaning may be quoted by preceding it with a backslash.
:::

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_04_01_02}4.1.2. Regular expression metacharacters {#regular-expression-metacharacters .sect2}
----------------------------------------------------------

A regular expression may be followed by one of several repetition
operators (metacharacters):

::: {.table}
[]{#table_04_01}

**Table 4-1. Regular expression operators**

  Operator   Effect
  ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  .          Matches any single character.
  ?          The preceding item is optional and will be matched, at most, once.
  \*         The preceding item will be matched zero or more times.
  \+         The preceding item will be matched one or more times.
  {N}        The preceding item is matched exactly N times.
  {N,}       The preceding item is matched N or more times.
  {N,M}      The preceding item is matched at least N times, but not more than M times.
  \-         represents the range if it\'s not first or last in a list or the ending point of a range in a list.
  \^         Matches the empty string at the beginning of a line; also represents the characters not in the range of a list.
  \$         Matches the empty string at the end of a line.
  \\b        Matches the empty string at the edge of a word.
  \\B        Matches the empty string provided it\'s not at the edge of a word.
  \\\<       Match the empty string at the beginning of word.
  \\\>       Match the empty string at the end of word.
:::

Two regular expressions may be concatenated; the resulting regular
expression matches any string formed by concatenating two substrings
that respectively match the concatenated subexpressions.

Two regular expressions may be joined by the infix operator
[\"\|\"]{.QUOTE}; the resulting regular expression matches any string
matching either subexpression.

Repetition takes precedence over concatenation, which in turn takes
precedence over alternation. A whole subexpression may be enclosed in
parentheses to override these precedence rules.
:::

::: {.sect2}
[]{#sect_04_01_03}4.1.3. Basic versus extended regular expressions {#basic-versus-extended-regular-expressions .sect2}
------------------------------------------------------------------

In basic regular expressions the metacharacters [\"?\"]{.QUOTE},
[\"+\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"{\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"\|\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"(\"]{.QUOTE}, and
[\")\"]{.QUOTE} lose their special meaning; instead use the backslashed
versions [\"\\?\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"\\+\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"\\{\"]{.QUOTE},
[\"\\\|\"]{.QUOTE}, [\"\\(\"]{.QUOTE}, and [\"\\)\"]{.QUOTE}.

Check in your system documentation whether commands using regular
expressions support extended expressions.
:::
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
  [Prev](chap_04.md)    [Home](index.md)    [Next](sect_04_02.md)
  Regular expressions     [Up](chap_04.md)        Examples using grep
  ---------------------- -------------------- -------------------------
:::
