::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_04_04.md)

Chapter 4. Regular expressions

[Next](chap_05.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_04_05}4.5. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

These exercises will help you master regular expressions.

1.  Display a list of all the users on your system who log in with the
    Bash shell as a default.

2.  From the `/etc/group`{.filename} directory, display all lines
    starting with the string [\"daemon\"]{.QUOTE}.

3.  Print all the lines from the same file that don\'t contain the
    string.

4.  Display localhost information from the `/etc/hosts`{.filename} file,
    display the line number(s) matching the search string and count the
    number of occurrences of the string.

5.  Display a list of `/usr/share/doc`{.filename} subdirectories
    containing information about shells.

6.  How many `README`{.filename} files do these subdirectories contain?
    Don\'t count anything in the form of [\"README.a\_string\"]{.QUOTE}.

7.  Make a list of files in your home directory that were changed less
    that 10 hours ago, using **grep**, but leave out directories.

8.  Put these commands in a shell script that will generate
    comprehensible output.

9.  Can you find an alternative for **wc `-l`{.option}**, using
    **grep**?

10. Using the file system table (`/etc/fstab`{.filename} for instance),
    list local disk devices.

11. Make a script that checks whether a user exists in
    `/etc/passwd`{.filename}. For now, you can specify the user name in
    the script, you don\'t have to work with arguments and conditionals
    at this stage.

12. Display configuration files in `/etc`{.filename} that contain
    numbers in their names.
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [Prev](sect_04_04.md)    [Home](index.md)         [Next](chap_05.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_04.md)    The GNU sed stream editor
  ------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
:::
