::: {.NAVHEADER}
Bash Guide for Beginners
:::

[Prev](sect_07_04.md)

Chapter 7. Conditional statements

[Next](chap_08.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.sect1}
[]{#sect_07_05}7.5. Exercises {#exercises .sect1}
=============================

Here are some ideas to get you started using **if** in scripts:

1.  Use an **if/then/elif/else** construct that prints information about
    the current month. The script should print the number of days in
    this month, and give information about leap years if the current
    month is February.

2.  Do the same, using a **case** statement and an alternative use of
    the **date** command.

3.  Modify `/etc/profile`{.filename} so that you get a special greeting
    message when you connect to your system as *root*.

4.  Edit the `leaptest.sh`{.filename} script from [Section
    7.2.4](sect_07_02.md#sect_07_02_04) so that it requires one
    argument, the year. Test that exactly one argument is supplied.

5.  Write a script called `whichdaemon.sh`{.filename} that checks if the
    **httpd** and **init** daemons are running on your system. If an
    **httpd** is running, the script should print a message like,
    [\"This machine is running a web server.\"]{.QUOTE} Use **ps** to
    check on processes.

6.  Write a script that makes a backup of your home directory on a
    remote machine using **scp**. The script should report in a log
    file, for instance `~/log/homebackup.log`{.filename}. If you don\'t
    have a second machine to copy the backup to, use **scp** to test
    copying it to the localhost. This requires SSH keys between the two
    hosts, or else you have to supply a password. The creation of SSH
    keys is explained in **man `ssh-keygen`{.parameter}**.

7.  Adapt the script from the first example in [Section
    7.3.1](sect_07_03.md#sect_07_03_01) to include the case of exactly
    90% disk space usage, and lower than 10% disk space usage.
:::

::: {.NAVFOOTER}

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------
  [Prev](sect_07_04.md)    [Home](index.md)           [Next](chap_08.md)
  Summary                    [Up](chap_07.md)    Writing interactive scripts
  ------------------------- -------------------- -----------------------------
:::
